# Paradoxical and Unusual Observations and Tendencies Regarding Software Development and Time Management

## **Law of triviality**, also known as **bike-shedding**
 - Members of an organization give disproportionate weight to trivial issues. 
 - The amount of noise generated by a change is inversely proportional to the complexity of the change

Related to *Wadler's Law*: ([Original Source][https://wiki.haskell.org/Wadler's_Law])

> In any language design, the total time spent discussing a feature in this list is proportional to two raised to the power of its position.
> 0. Semantics
> 1. Syntax
> 2. Lexical syntax
> 3. Lexical syntax of comments

See [bikeshed.com](http://bikeshed.com/), [freebsd FAQ "Why should I care what color the bikeshed is?"](https://www.freebsd.org/doc/en_US.ISO8859-1/books/faq/misc.html#bikeshed-painting), and an archive.org copy of [The Bikeshed email](https://web.archive.org/web/20190222102122/http://phk.freebsd.dk/sagas/bikeshed.html).  

The original FreeBSD mailing list e-mail from Poul-Henning Kemp is long, but worth the read.  It appears back in 1999 there was a massive debate as to whether or not to allow `sleep()` to accept fractional seconds.  This was already supported by NetBSD and OpenBSD and according to Kemp, the original proposal was well thought out.  However it apparently sparked a massive debate on the mailing lists, with far-reaching trivialities and endless "What if?" and "But it's not standard…" discussion lasting days or possibly weeks (according to Kemp, he could not be bothered to even check, understandably).

This led to the bikeshed.com website, and a fairly serious campaign against bike-shedding within the FreeBSD community which spread across the programming and software development community in general.

The cause for bike-shedding can be summed up as follows:

> Parkinson explains that this is because an atomic plant is so vast, so expensive and so complicated that people cannot grasp it, and rather than try, they fall back on the assumption that somebody else checked all the details before it got this far.  – Poul-Henning Kemp.

Kemp goes on to add some not-so-encouraging, but likely good advice:

> The second part of my wish is more emotional.  Obviously, the capacities we had manning the unfriendly fire in the sleep(1) thread, **despite their many years with the project, never cared enough to do this tiny deed, so why are they suddenly so enflamed [sic] by somebody else [...] doing it** ?
> I do know that reasoning will have no power to stop such "reactionaire conservatism".  It may be that these people are frustrated about their own lack of tangible contribution lately or it may be a bad case of "we're old and grumpy, WE know how youth should behave".
> Either way it is very unproductive for the project, but I have no suggestions for how to stop it.  **The best I can suggest is to refrain from fuelling the monsters** that lurk in the mailing lists:  **Ignore them, don't answer them, forget they're there.**

## Fredkin's paradox

"The more equally attractive two alternatives seem, the harder it can be to choose between them—no matter that, to the same degree, the choice can only matter less." – Edward Fredkin

Wikipedia puts it as "There is a negative correlation between the difference between two options and the difficulty deciding between them. ".